---
title: Chapter 15 — Lyn
layout: chapter
---

## Basic Info

#### Stats at Level 150 Promoted

| Stat | Value |
| :--- | ----: |
| HP   |   935 |
| Str  |   130 |
| Mag  |    49 |
| Skl  |   152 |
| Spe  |   165 |
| Lck  |   131 |
| Def  |   109 |
| Res  |    91 |
{: .table .table-sm .stats}

Lyn decided to pick up a Strength growth on the way to Aytolis, sporting a solid 117 total. Her other relevant offensive stats are solid too, with a great 136 Skill and a solid 96 Luck. Her bulk is pretty average — not as high as some of the bruisers of the cast, but far from a glass cannon. Her Speed is also outstanding, although Speed itself isn’t too useful.

#### Staff

Never

#### Unique Weapon

Sol Katti: **Dracoslayer** in 7th slot, **True Power**/**Divine Favor** (Shadow Dragon DLC only) in 8th

#### Unique Skill

Pass: The unit’s movement cannot be stopped by enemy attacks.

#### Pair Up Bonuses as Support

Str/Skill/Speed (+5 if A/A+, +3 otherwise)

## Moveset

**`C1`:** Lyn quickly dashes forward a decent distance. This is a nice gapcloser, but not much else.

**`C2`:** Lyn leaps into the air while slashing enemies in front, launching enemies hit. While airborne, she can use “Y” to use basic attacks as she falls, or “X” to slam directly down onto the ground. If you want to begin a juggle, just let Lyn drop.

**`C3`:** Lyn spins forward a short distance and then slashes vertically. This is a nice short range crowd clearer that is quite spammable.

**`C4`:** Lyn dashes straight up into the air in a zig-zag pattern, then uses both of her blades to slash in an “X” formation. This combo renders her airborne, where she has the same options as detailed in `C2`. This combo also exposes the stun gauge on any foe that doesn’t have WTA over her. This one is a bit tricky, but if you let Lyn drop immediately after the “X” slash, she can then immediately start juggling whatever unlucky officer got their stun gauge exposed.

**`C5`:** Lyn spins forward up to 5 times with each press of the `X` button, finishing it off with a diagonal slash. This combo is an ok stun gauge breaker, but where it really shines is the amount of agency you have in deciding just how far you want her to go while attacking. She can clear a very long distance with all 5 `X` presses, making it a great crowd clearer as she moves from place to place. With fewer `X` presses, she can use it to duel officers without leaving them behind.

**`C6`:** Lyn leaps into the air and dashes in multiple directions faster than the eye can follow. Enemies hit are dragged up into the air with her in the center of the area she is dashing. She finishes the combo with a giant slash in an “X” formation, dealing a huge amount of damage to enemies hit. This combo is utterly fantastic, up there with the best of them. `C6` allows Lyn to clear huge crowds while focusing down multiple officers at a time.

## Weapon Skills

My choices in **bold**, locked skills in _italics_.
{:.alert .alert-info}

### Vanilla

- **Strong V**
- **Strong VI**
- **Rainstorm**
- Choose one: Antitriangle, **Critical Focus**
- Choose one: **Plateslayer**, Mountslayer, Wingslayer
- Choose one: **Pair Up+**, Critical+, Warrior+
- _True Power_

Strong VI and Rainstorm boost Lyn's strongest combos, while Armor Strike helps her to take down powerful opponents. Antitriangle can help differentiate herself from other sword units, while Critical Focus lets her break down stun gauges quicker. Choose your slayer based on preference and convenience. Finally, take a 5k skill. Pair Up+ is the best one, but Critical+ and Warrior+ are good budget options.

### DLC

- Choose one: **Strong VI**, Rainstorm, Critical Focus, Antitriangle
- Choose one: Strong VI, Rainstorm, **Critical Focus**, Antitriangle
- Choose one: Swordbreaker, Lancebreaker, Axebreaker, Critical Focus
- **Armor Strike**
- Choose one: **Plateslayer**, Mountslayer, Wingslayer
- Choose one: **Pair Up+**, Critical+, Warrior+
- _Divine Favor_

For the first two slots, Strong VI and Rainstorm boost Lyn's best combos. Alternatively, Critical Focus is a higher investment choice that allows her to score criticals more frequently, while Antitriangle can help to differentiate herself from Navarre. Next, choose a breaker (you can take Critical Focus here as well, if you wish). Armor Strike is fantastic for breaking through tough lategame enemies. Next, choose two slayers — ideally, whichever one you didn't take on Navarre, for maximum coverage. Finally, take a 5k skill. Pair Up+ is the best one, but Critical+ and Warrior+ are good budget options.

## Boost Skills

| Skill          | Hero        |  PC   |  AI   |
| :------------- | :---------- | :---: | :---: |
| Astra          | Ryoma       | **M** | **M** |
| Luna           | Chrom       | **M** | **M** |
| Luck +20       | Celica      | **M** | **M** |
| Trample        | Camilla     | **S** | **S** |
| Armored Blow   | Tiki        | **S** |   –   |
| Pass           | Lyn         |   O   |   –   |
| Lethality      | Niles       | **S** |   –   |
| Lone Wolf      | Navarre     |   O   | **S** |
| Solidarity     | Robin       |   O   | **S** |
| Awakening      | Lucina      |   O   |   –   |
| Counter        | Oboro       |   O   |   –   |
| Dracoshield    | Corrin      |   –   |   O   |
{: .table .table-sm .skills}

#### Mandatory Skills

**Astra (Ryoma)**, **Luna (Chrom)**, **Luck +20 (Celica)**

- The biggest consistent damage boosters. Make sure to only run Luck +20 if you already have Luna equipped.

#### Vanguard Skills

**Trample (Camilla)**, **Armored Blow (Tiki)**, Pass (Lyn), **Lethality (Niles)**, Lone Wolf (Navarre), Solidarity (Robin), Awakening (Lucina), Counter (Oboro)

- Trample offers a nice damage boost against foot units, by far the most common enemy type.
- Armored Blow, and Pass to a lesser degree, make it easier to close the distance against raged foes and reduce the risk presented by Armor Strike.
- Lethality is a great damage booster, but be sure to have Luck +20 equipped for maximum efficiency.
- Lone Wolf is a solid skill, especially for maps that only allow one unit to be deployed.
- Solidarity is a good choice when pair-swapping.
- Awakening is a decent damage boost while in Awakening mode.
- Counter is a solid option to open up stun gauges quickly.

#### Support Skills

**Trample (Camilla)**, **Solidarity (Robin)**, Dracoshield (Corrin), **Lone Wolf (Navarre)**

- Lone Wolf is a great skill for an AI controlled unit, considering that they are often on their own if they are not in the back of a Pair Up.
- Solidarity and Dracoshield are great skills for a dedicated Pair-Up build.

## Conclusion

If Marth and Celica’s moveset is focused on speedy strikes, then Lyn has cut the brakes entirely. While adjusting to Astra she feels nigh uncontrollable, but after a few battles of practice, she becomes a powerful and precise hurricane of a unit. She doesn’t lack in any particular area, has a very flexible weapon build, and her moveset has an answer for every situation. She can juggle, gapclose, crowd clear… you get the picture. I was overjoyed when she got announced for the game, as she is one of my favorite characters in the whole series, and I was especially thrilled to see just how effective she is on the battlefield. She’s definitely one of the best characters in the game (despite being slightly worse than her DLC clone, Navarre), and I strongly recommend investing in her.
